.\" Manpage for infra-gen
.\" Contact: https://github.com/your-org/infra-gen/issues
.TH INFRA-GEN 1 "2026-03-07" "infra-gen 0.1.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
infra-gen \- generate multi-environment infrastructure-as-code from YAML manifests
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B infra-gen
[\fB\-h\fR]
[\fB\-o\fR \fIDIR\fR]
[\fB\-\-validate\fR]
[\fB\-\-dry\-run\fR]
[\fB\-\-drift\fR]
[\fB\-\-version\fR]
.I MANIFEST
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B infra-gen
reads a declarative YAML service manifest and generates production-ready
Terraform modules and Kubernetes manifests for multiple environments
(dev, staging, prod).
.PP
The tool enforces strict security-group directionality, handles two-service
mutual dependencies as "peer relationships" with bidirectional rules,
detects circular dependencies involving 3+ services, performs bidirectional
drift analysis, estimates monthly AWS costs, and validates manifest
correctness before generation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.I MANIFEST
Path to the YAML manifest file defining services, dependencies, databases,
caches, and per-environment resource overrides.  This argument is required.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output " " \fIDIR\fR
Root output directory for generated files.  Terraform modules are written to
\fIDIR\fR/terraform/<env>/ and Kubernetes manifests to
\fIDIR\fR/kubernetes/<env>/.  Default: \fBoutput\fR.
.TP
.B \-\-validate
Validate the manifest and exit without generating any files.  Checks
dependency existence, self-references, CPU format (must match \fB^[0-9]+m$\fR),
replica counts (must be > 0), replica ordering (\fBprod >= staging >= dev\fR),
and circular dependencies (3+ services).  Two-service mutual dependencies are
reported as informational peer relationships.  Exit code 0 means the manifest
is valid; exit code 1 means errors were found.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Preview what would be generated without writing any files.  Displays detected
peer relationships, the topological resource creation order, and estimated
monthly AWS costs per environment broken down by service.
.TP
.B \-\-drift
Detect drift between the manifest and previously generated output files.
Reports forward drift (new or changed resources) and reverse drift (orphaned
files from services no longer in the manifest).  Exits with code 1 if
orphaned resources are found.
.TP
.B \-\-version
Print the program version and exit.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show the help message and exit.
.SH MANIFEST FORMAT
The YAML manifest must contain a top-level \fBservices\fR list.  Each entry
supports the following fields:
.TP
.B name
(required) Unique service identifier used as a resource name prefix.
.TP
.B port
(required) Primary container listening port (integer).
.TP
.B dependencies
List of other service names that this service depends on.  Dependency edges
drive security-group rules and topological ordering.  Default: empty list.
.TP
.B db_type
Database engine: \fBpostgres\fR, \fBmysql\fR, or \fBnone\fR.  Default:
\fBnone\fR.
.TP
.B cache
Cache engine: \fBredis\fR, \fBmemcached\fR, or \fBnone\fR.  Default:
\fBnone\fR.
.TP
.B exposure
Network exposure: \fBinternal\fR or \fBexternal\fR.  External services
receive ALB ingress on port 443 from 0.0.0.0/0.  Internal services never
get public ingress.  Default: \fBinternal\fR.
.TP
.B health_check_path
Optional HTTP path for Kubernetes readiness probes (e.g. \fB/healthz\fR).
When omitted, a TCP socket probe is used instead.
.TP
.B secrets
List of secret names required at runtime (e.g. \fBDB_PASSWORD\fR, \fBAPI_KEY\fR).
Names must match \fB^[A-Z][A-Z0-9_]*$\fR.  Provisioned in AWS Secrets Manager
(Terraform) and mounted as Kubernetes Secrets with \fBenvFrom\fR injection.
Default: empty list.
.TP
.B env_overrides
Per-environment settings.  Must include \fBdev\fR, \fBstaging\fR, and
\fBprod\fR keys, each with:
.RS
.TP
.B replicas
Integer > 0.  Must satisfy \fBprod >= staging >= dev\fR.
.TP
.B cpu
Kubernetes millicore string matching \fB^[0-9]+m$\fR (e.g. \fB"250m"\fR).
.RE
.SH SECURITY GROUP RULES
.TP
.B Directional
If service A depends on service B, then A can reach B on B's port.  B gets
an ingress rule from A's security group.
.TP
.B External ingress
Services with \fBexposure: external\fR receive an ALB ingress rule on port
443 from 0.0.0.0/0.
.TP
.B Internal protection
Services with \fBexposure: internal\fR never receive 0.0.0.0/0 ingress,
even if external services depend on them.
.TP
.B Database SGs
Database security groups only allow inbound traffic from the owning
service's security group on port 5432 (Postgres) or 3306 (MySQL).
.TP
.B Peer relationships
If exactly two services mutually depend on each other (A depends on B and
B depends on A), they form a "peer pair".  Peer pairs receive bidirectional
security-group rules (both ingress and egress in each direction) and are
tagged with a \fBpeer-group\fR label.  They are not treated as cycles.
.SH COST ESTIMATION
The \fB\-\-dry\-run\fR flag includes estimated monthly AWS costs using
the following on-demand prices (us-east-1):
.PP
.nf
  t3.micro       $7.49/mo   (one per replica)
  db.t3.micro    $12.25/mo  (one per service with db_type != none)
  cache.t3.micro $11.52/mo  (one per service with cache != none)
  secret         $0.40/mo   (one per secret declared in secrets)
.fi
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success.
.TP
.B 1
Validation failure, parse error, cycle detected, or orphaned resources
found during drift detection.
.SH EXAMPLES
Validate a manifest:
.PP
.nf
  infra-gen services.yaml \-\-validate
.fi
.PP
Dry-run with cost estimation:
.PP
.nf
  infra-gen services.yaml \-\-dry\-run
.fi
.PP
Generate all infrastructure files:
.PP
.nf
  infra-gen services.yaml \-o infra
.fi
.PP
Detect drift against existing output:
.PP
.nf
  infra-gen services.yaml \-\-drift \-o infra
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I <output>/terraform/<env>/backend.tf.json
S3 + DynamoDB state backend per environment.
.TP
.I <output>/terraform/<env>/provider.tf.json
AWS provider configuration with default tags.
.TP
.I <output>/terraform/<env>/<service>.tf.json
Per-service Terraform resources (security groups, RDS, ElastiCache, ECS,
Secrets Manager).
.TP
.I <output>/kubernetes/<env>/<service>.yaml
Multi-document YAML containing Deployment, Service, NetworkPolicy, HPA, and
optionally Secret.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR terraform (1),
.BR kubectl (1),
.BR aws (1)
.SH BUGS
Report bugs at: https://github.com/your-org/infra-gen/issues
.SH AUTHORS
infra-gen contributors.
